## _Campus Capriccio_

> While in class, you can think about basic things that are already clear. This knowledge is fun and enjoyable, why not revisit it? On the other hand, is there a better way to introduce it? Any relevant new questions? Can you give new life to this old knowledge? ...but if you do have a new idea, it's nice to see things from a new angle.
Questions students ask can sometimes provide new directions for research. They often ask questions that I have thought about but gave up temporarily, but they are all very meaningful. It is also interesting to rethink these questions and see if we can make breakthroughs.
Students don't necessarily understand the direction I want to answer, or the level I want to think about; but when they ask me this question, they often remind me of related issues. It is not easy to obtain this kind of revelation on your own. —Richard Feynman

I don't comment on teaching work or the like, but for one thing, I think the atmosphere of the computer department is not good. I'm an outsider, I can see clearly, and the senior who came to me mentioned this as I did. You will find that our students always like to brag about others and belittle themselves, which is the so-called 23 (laughs). The student took me as an example. The contestants gave everyone a question, and they all seemed to have no choice but to say that their ability was not enough. I hope everyone will not laugh at the water question. This creates a collective lack of self-confidence. Some classmates will think that those very good people say that they are not good, and their ability must be far worse. Or everyone usually likes to flatter each other, but when the final result comes out or some classmates fail, they stop talking. This is a very bad atmosphere. Everyone subconsciously denied themselves, and then naturally followed the mainstream direction, copying what others said, because he felt that his ability was not enough, or he dared not think about it.

I have taught for so many years, and I can see the difference between the Department of Computer Science and other departments in this regard. In the data structure class for the whole school, many students communicated actively. Teacher Yin and I were very happy to answer the question this time, because there were eight students. Others will surely think, how can they be happy with so few students? Because we used to be able to come five or six to the department is not bad. I found that there are very few students like you in the Department of Computer Science, and few people actively communicate with each other. Everyone is doing their own thing. Therefore, there are not many people who can communicate in depth and candidly. And because of this kind of atmosphere, many people don't want to ask the teacher or others when they have questions in class or at other times. They will wonder if I will be despised by the god next door. This kind of mentality makes the communication between our departments not very sufficient. Of course, our teachers are also responsible.

So I think everyone should pay attention to this issue. When I was in college, I was divided into a key class that is equivalent to today's. When I was in it, I found that many students in the class were busy with their own affairs, or in other words, there was not much communication. So now when the classmates get together, our relationship always seems to be not as close as the people in other ordinary classes. This is a gap. Once a classmate of mine drank too much and said to us, 'On the day of graduation, I knew that your class didn't have any relatives from our other classes, because we were going to go all over the world, and we were all crying. Most of you are guaranteed research.' Some things are experienced together and the relationship will last, but we just haven't experienced it, and there are too few sincere exchanges.
